---
title: TempDB Recovery Model
description: TempDB Recovery Model best practices report by SPDocKit determines whether the TempDB recovery model is set properly.
author: Aleksandar Draskovic 
date: 23/6/2017
---
### Issue Description
This check determines whether the TempDB recovery model is set properly.
### Explanation
SharePoint Server uses SQL Server to store configuration and user data. SQL Server stores data over the various file types. The TempDB system database is a global resource that is available to all users connected to the instance of SQL Server. It is used to hold the following:
* Temporary user objects that are explicitly created, such as global or local temporary tables, temporary stored procedures, table variables, or cursors.
* Internal objects that are created by the SQL Server Database Engine, for example, work tables to store intermediate results for spools or sorting.
* Row versions that are generated by data modification transactions in a database that uses read-committed row versioning isolation or snapshot isolation transactions.
* Row versions that are generated by data modification transactions for features, such as online index operations, Multiple Active Result Sets (MARS), and AFTER triggers.

The simple recovery model is required; therefore, **tempdb** log space is always automatically reclaimed. You cannot backup **tempdb**.
### Solution
Check the recovery model on the tempdb database and set it to Simple, if required. To do so, start SQL Server Management Studio and connect to the SQL server instance which hosts your content databases. 

In the **Object Explorer** tree, navigate to **Databases** > **System Databases**, select the tempdb database, right-click on it and click **Properties**. In the **Database Properties** window, select **Options** page. Click the **Recovery model** drop down box and select **Simple**. Click **OK** to exit and save the changes.
### Additional information 
* [Best practices for SQL Server in a SharePoint Server farm](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh292622.aspx)
* [Recovery Models (SQL Server)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/backup-restore/recovery-models-sql-server)
* [Recovery Models for System Databases](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms365937%28v=sql.105%29.aspx)