---
title: TempDB Size
description: >-
  TempDB Size best practices report by SPDocKit determines whether TempDB
  database disk space is allocated properly.
author: Aleksandar Draskovic
date: 23/6/2017
tags: >-
  Windows SharePoint Services 3.0,SharePoint Server 2007,SharePoint Foundation
  2010,SharePoint Server 2010,SharePoint Foundation 2013,SharePoint Server
  2013,SharePoint Server 2016
---

# TempDB Size

## Issue description

This check determines whether TempDB database disk space is allocated properly.

## Explanation

SharePoint Server uses SQL Server to store configuration and user data. SQL Server stores data over various file types. The TempDB system database is a global resource that is available to all users connected to the instance of SQL Server. It is used to hold the following:

* Temporary user objects that are explicitly created, such as global or local temporary tables, temporary stored procedures, table variables, or cursors.
* Internal objects that are created by the SQL Server Database Engine, for example, work tables to store intermediate results for spools or sorting.
* Row versions that are generated by data modification transactions in a database that uses read-committed row versioning isolation or snapshot isolation transactions.
* Row versions that are generated by data modification transactions for features, such as online index operations, Multiple Active Result Sets \(MARS\), and AFTER triggers.

The size of the TempDB should be at least 10% of the largest content database in the farm.

## Solution

Check the database file disk space allocation. To do so, open the **SQL Server Manager** on the database server and check properties for every database. The page **File** in the **Properties** window contains the information about physical location of the database files.

In case you need to move the database files to another drive or server, please read the articles referenced in the **Additional information** section.

## Additional information

Additional information can be found in the following articles:

* [Best practices for SQL Server in a SharePoint Server farm](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh292622.aspx)
* [Storage and SQL Server capacity planning and configuration \(SharePoint Server 2013\)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/a96075c6-d315-40a8-a739-49b91c61978f#Section6_5)
* [Move System Databases](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/databases/move-system-databases)

